h1. Overview

Canvas is a lightweight framework for HTML5 / JavaScript animation. 

Canvas is configuration-based - instead of defining animation behavior in 
executable code, behavior is defined in configuration files. Because the 
framework code is reused for different elements, it is much smaller than a 
fully executable animation.

h1. Configuration

h2. Elements

Canvas elements have several attributes.

- identifier := the element's unique identifier. May be textually meaningful
- image := for displayable elements, the image associated with the element
- distance := for displayable elements, the relative distance to the associated image
- duration := start and stop times for an element's visibility; multiple pairs of times may be specified.
For elements triggered by other than timing events, the start time is specified as "*". =:
- operation := the operation attribute contains the operations that are to be executed for the element
- usecanvas := specifies an element whose canvas this element should be drawn on

h2. Operations

Operation configurations supply parameters to the operations that applied to elements.

h3. Defined operations

The following is a list of currently defined operations and their corresponding parameters

- banner := displays rotating text 

* "display parameters":'#display_parameters'
* align
* text
* rotate
* per_second

- bounce := image is bounced 

* top
* bottom

- button := create a clickable area over the image for another operation

* shape
* action

- clear := clear the image

- fixed := draw an element on the canvas at a fixed position

- move := move the image on the canvas

* "display parameters":'#display_parameters'
* cycle 

- pan := fills the background with the element image, and moves it as specified

* speed


h4. Parameter definitions

- bottom := identifies the lower range of motion for operation *bounce*
- top := identifies the upper range of motion for operation *bounce*

- cycle := if true, the element reenters the display from the edge opposite the one it disappeared from. [1]

- per_second := the number of rotations to make each second for operation *banner*
- rotate := the number of characters to move each rotation for operation *banner*
- text := the text to be displayed for operation *banner*

- speed := the nominal velocity in pixels per (second / 60) that an element moves on the
screen. This is normalized 

h5(display_parameters). Display parameters

Display parameters denote where elements are to be placed

- align := adjusts a display image location reference point. Default is [top, left]. [2] 

- position := initial image position. May be percent of screen

- speed := Speed at which the element image moves across the screen. Scaled by 
element distance and screen refresh rate. =:

fn1. "true" is the current behavior.

fn2. Currently implemented for operation *fixed*.

h1. TODO

* consolidate fixed and move
* add option to use image center
* add "align" to other operations
* make bounce top and bottom relative to image top and bottom
* make bounce work in a box, not just up and down
