h1. Speed

Speed is defined for operations where images are moved across the page.

If an element is defined with a _distance_ parameter, as well as _speed_, the
rate at which the element will move across the screen is scaled by the 
_distance_ value.

There are two ways to specify _speed_.

h2. Speed as an array

Speed may be specified as a two value array, the first item being speed in the
_x_ direction and the second the _y_ direction. The units are pixels per screen 
refresh, so a value of 1 makes things move pretty fast.

bc.. // configuration.js
configuration["item1"] = { ...
    operations:{
        move: {
            speed: [.3, 0], ...
            }
        }
    }
    
p. If a number of elements are moving at the same logical speed, the speed may be 
specified in a variable.

bc.. // configuration.js
var drift = [.3, 0] ...
configuration["item1"] = { ...
    operations:{
        move: {
            speed: drift, ...
            }
        }
    }
configuration["item2"] = { ...
    operations:{
        move: {
            speed: drift, ...
            }
        }
    }
p. This ensures multiple elements are moving at the same rate.

h2. Speed as a function

Speed may need to be defined as a calculated value. This can be accomplished 
be defining a speed function. The function may be defined inline or at another 
location 

bc.. // configuration.js
...
configuration ["element"] = {
    distance : 2,
    duration : [ 0, "*" ],
    interval : 10,
    operation : {
        "move" : {
            speed : {
                start: [.3, .2],
                speed : deltaV
            },
            position : [ "20%", "60%" ],
            cycle : true
        },
    },
// calc.js
...
function deltaV(rt_element, rt_operation) {
    var operation = rt_operation.configuration
    var dx = rt_operation.state.dx || rt_operation.configuration.speed.start[0]
    var dy = rt_operation.state.dy || rt_operation.configuration.speed.start[1]
    ...
    rt_operation.state.dx = dx
    rt_operation.state.dy = dy
    return [ dx, dy ]
}
p. The function is defined in the 
operation as rt_operation.speed.speed. Parameters are the runtime element and the runtime operation. 
The function returns a two dimensional array. 

Initial values and constants may also be defined within rt_operation.speed.